Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to be looking at the deep object in javascript so we can
grab the current time at any point within our javascript by calling to the Date object.
So due date and we do the rounded brackets and we can grab date.
So what this does is this actually returns back the data from your computer's time and it's based on
whatever your current system has as the current date and time.
So if you're looking at always looking at that as being accurate it's not always going to be 100 percent
accurate.
So there's a number of ways to actually set dates and get dates.
And one of the ways that so we're using date.
So if we want to output the date here within message we can do that by getting the current date.
So just set up a variable and we'll just call it D and this one let's grab the date.
So we're going to just do new date creating a brand new Date object.
And then with message we're going to add it to the inner h t m l.
So we're going to concatenate to the inner h t m l and we're going to just simply add in will add in
a line break and then we'll add in deep.
After that let's go take a look and we'll see what this looks like.
So there we go.
So now we basically have our current date that is within our system time.
So we can also set a date so we don't have to actually we can initiate a date but we can also set a
date.
So if for instance we want it to set the date of the previous year we can enter that in as part of the
date string.
And there's a number of formats that we can enter in.
So this here is what's known as the full date format.
So basically it provides all of that information for a date.
So if for instance instead of grabbing the data like this I want to actually set a date and I put that
within the Javascript.
So let's do that now.
We can set a date.
So going by year first there is a specific syntax that we need to use and this one it requires that
we have a year.
So that would be four characters for a year.
Next we can set a month.
So that's the two for the month.
So notice that if one of the months is just the single digit then you do need to set a zero in front
of it in order for it to be correct.
And then next let's set a 10.
So go back out and refresh it.
So we see that the date is Saturday January 9th 2010.
So notice that I've got a 10 here as the date and what's actually happening here is why we've got a
nine over here.
And while we're setting 10 this is reflective of the time zones.
So depending on what the time zone that you're in you may or may not have it working properly.
You can also just do a format where you're not actually including the day you could do something like
this where we're simply grabbing the year and the month.
And notice again that there's been an adjustment here so if I update this too for save it go back and
refresh.
We notice that we get March.
And again we got an adjustment here that's helping happening because of the time zones.
We can also just put a year on its own and this will just pick up a default time.
So the year just before we hit.
So basically it's returning back January 1st 2010.
And because of the time zones that's why things are getting a little bit messed up there because of
those timezones.
So you can also add in the date so we can do something like January 1st 2010 and we can use the U.S.
value by doing CTT.
So this is a US time stamp.
So this way we can format it and it actually comes back as January 20 10th.
So again depending on the browser that you're using it may or may not differ.
You can also set in time.
So it's 1 pm so it's a 24 hour clock and we'll set 1 p.m. and 55 seconds so refresh.
So there we go.
So we can update the date and we can really fine tune that date value as needed.
So the thing that we wanted to add in is that you can set the date in various formats so I can set up.
So I'm going to just use very bold D again and this time I'm going to set the date so I'm going to do
new date and I can specify a date within here.
So we've got a number of ways that we can do this.
We can specify the date by
just typing it in so we can do a short format and we can do April 10th 2011.
So let's go back out and refresh it and we can add in commas as well so that doesn't matter.
So those are not those are disregarded.
So that's good news if you're trying to format your date properly that you can have commas in there
and it actually doesn't matter.
You can also do the full date value.
So instead of that short format we can do uppercase.
So upper case lower case doesn't matter.
You can add in commas all of that doesn't matter go back and refresh and it doesn't actually change
anything there.
So the other thing that we wanted to do so lot to add in another variable and let's do variable t.
And I'm going to add that here to the bottom.
So let's duplicate this part and add it to the bottom so we can get the number of milliseconds from
January 1st 1970 in conjunction with the date.
So if you want to know how many milliseconds from January 1st 1972 April 10th 2010 then we can use date
the date object.
And we can use the method get time.
So basically this returns back a universal time value so let's go back and refresh it and we can see
that we've got our universal time value.
So since that date.
And if we want to comment this one out.
And get the amount of seconds from now until from now till January 1st 1970 we can do this and we can
see that this is constantly changing as well.
So every time I refresh the page the amount of seconds is increasing from that initial start date.
And this is used quite often with programming as well.
So it's another useful value that you can make use of within your javascript code.
So also within javascript we have an option to set time so we can get the time and we can set a date
as well.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and calculate out how many milliseconds since your data
birth and work that out and return back using the date object using your birthdate whatever your birth
date might be and then applying the get tie method to your birth date to calculate out how many milliseconds
since your birth date.
And if you're before 1970 Let me show you what's going to happen.
So let's say for instance we set a date before 1970 because we know that this is starting on 1970.
So if you're born in nineteen sixty let's refresh it and we see that all that happens is we go to negative.
So that's all that happened.
So if you do get a negative if you're born before the 1970s then you will have a negative value there
for that.
So go ahead and try that 8
and if you want to add dates to your current time so let's say that this is April 10th 1980 and all
of a sudden you want to add 50 or 100 days into it.
This is going to be really easy using javascript.
So let's do that now and we're going to take the deep object and we're going to use set a date so we
know that within set date we can actually set a different date there for her.
So if we wanted to all of a sudden instead of April and now let's do November and refresh it.
So now
and with the date object we can also set values so we can set a time.
We can set a date as well and we can set a year we can set ours.
So if we want to change this date object to another year we can use the set year.
And this one is set for a year.
So basically what this does is this allows us to set a brand new value for the year.
So let's go back out and when we refresh it.
Now we've got to 2017 as the year.
We could also set the date so the date is actually a day.
So this is a number from 1 to 31.
And this is going to update April 10th to whatever number we're choosing.
So we can do something like 25 and we can set to April 2015 2017 and we can also do the minutes we can
change the month.
And let's show you to do the month as well so the month is a little bit tricky because this is a number
that starts at 0 and ends at 11.
So if you want to get December the month is going to be 11.
So go back and refresh it.
And that's how we get December and if for instance we want to add 50 days to our current date we can
do we can return back the current date by do a DE get date
so returning back and we're getting the current date and then we're setting it because we're incrementing
that.
So if we want to add a 100 days to whatever date that we're specifying here we can refresh it.
And now we've added 100 days to our April original value.
And I'm going to just comment that because we're resetting the month.
So let's refresh that and we can see that when we add a 100 days to April 10th we end up with July 19th.
So go ahead and try it for yourself and take your birthdate and add a hundred days to it and output
that within javascript.